# calenhad
Calenhad is GIS and terrain creation for imaginary worlds.

I identified some specific requirements for GIS when dealing with imaginary worlds that are not well catered for by traditional real-world GIS offerings such as QGIS, for all their comprehensiveness and pedigree. For instance:

  - if we are creating a world ourselves instead of describing the one God made, we are generating procedurally or by hand data which in real-world GIS is typically downloaded or produced by some other system. We need tools to generate topographic and other data to describe the world the user is imagining. I think that in general users will want to guide the high-level structure of a planet (say where there will be continents and oceans, what rough shape they will be, where there will be mountain ranges, and so forth) and overlay low-level detail (place specific features, sculpt particular pieces of topography, arrange the landscape to suit his story or game scenario) but let the computer generate realistic and appropriate landscapes for levels of detail between the satellite view and the street-level view. Calenhad uses noise generation (initially libnoise and in due course a port of this to a GPU implementation) and potentially sculpting tools and a tectonics simulator to generate toporgraphy.
  
  - real-world GIS raster data is arranged on a latitude - longitude grid in an equirectangular (or Mercator or similar cylindrical) projection and reprojected into any of some thousands of projections to provide the view a user wants. If we generate raster data in two dimensions and show it on a a globe or similar, we will see obvious pinching towards the poles because we have the same number of pixels at any given latitude, but the distance covered by those pixels decreases with the cosine of the latitude. This is OK on the Earth becaue most applications are not interested in high latitudes and those that are are generally interested only in high latitudes. Our application needs to consider the whole planet where our user may regard polar regions as important and indeed may need a view that covers polar and temperate regions together (suppose we want to depict Helcarax We want a structure for "raster" data which provides even spacing
